WIP JS Template (#752)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/platforms/javascript/index.md

sidebar_order: 3
---

> {% capture __alert %}

Reviewer: Weird, that "{% capture __alert %}" on line 8 makes everything bold until "___PUBLIC_KEY___" 700+ lines later in GitHub.

Reviewer 2: Markdown parser sees `__` so it's accurate behavior. There's no `{% %}` in markdown spec, thus it's ignored. It'll work fine once it's built.

Author: Great! Thanks, @kamilogorek!

> {% include learn-sdk.md platform="javascript" %}

Reviewer: Out of scope for this PR, but can we give the old deprecated SDK a less current looking URL than https://docs.sentry.io/clients/javascript/ ?  Why is one a "platform" and one a "client"?

> The table below shows supported browsers:

Reviewer: This table seems to show the browsers that we test against automatically. Can we state what "degraded level of detail" you'd get in an "older browser"?

This seems like it'd be more useful as a list of the earliest version of browsers that we support at all and a clear asterisk when needed, e.g. "IE 7-10 Promises will require polyfill".

Reviewer: Note: This is what we show today -- so not a blocker to replacing current docs.

![Sauce Test Status](https://saucelabs.com/browser-matrix/sentryio.svg)

> {% capture __alert %}

Reviewer: I'd push this to the end, but link to it from the asterisk on IE10.  It's not a blocker to getting set up.

Author: @eurica I spoke with a JS dev about this table and they really liked it. They said it helps them in their decision making process of whether or not to use Sentry. Based on the conversation, it sounds like knowing what Internet Explorer versions are supported is a big weighing factor for them.

Author: @eurica Okay. I thought about it some more and linked the table down below Releases. :)

Our SDK needs a polyfill for `Promise` in older browsers like IE 11 and below. 
Please add this script tag below before loading our SDK. 

> If you are using the npm package, please use a polyfill for `Promise` respectively.

Reviewer 3: Is there a Promise polyfill package we recommend?

Reviewer: Isn't it just https://cdn.polyfill.io/v2/polyfill.min.js?features=Promise below?

Reviewer 2: Yes, exactly this one from `polyfill.io`

Author: I'll reword the Note to make it more clear.

```
RSVP.on('error', function(reason) {
  Sentry.captureException(reason);
});
```

[Bluebird](http://bluebirdjs.com/docs/getting-started.html) and other promise libraries report unhandled rejections to a global DOM event, `unhandledrejection`. In this case, you don't need to do anything; we've already got you covered with the default `captureUnhandledRejections: true` setting.

Please consult your promise library documentation on how to hook into its global unhandled rejection handler, if it exposes one.

&nbsp;
## Manually Trigger Errors
If your app is in a broken state, but error handling isn't throwing explicit errors, you can manually trigger errors.

**[Mimi note: Trying to cater to the kind of dev who has a set flow. Usually, 1. Initialize, 2. optionally configure, 3. Manually trigger an error (because you wanna take it out for a test drive)]**

&nbsp;
### Capturing Errors

The most common form of capturing is to capture errors. In general, if you have something that looks like an exception it can be captured.

For more information, see [Capturing Errors / Exceptions](#capturing-errors).

&nbsp;
### Generate a Custom Error

> You can generate a custom error with `new MyAppError('message')` and by creating a class that extends the built in `Error()` function. For more information, see the [sentry-javascript code example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/packages/core/src/error.ts) in GitHub.

Author: @kamilogorek Am I describing this correctly?

```
Sentry.configureScope((scope) => {
  scope.setExtra("character_name", "Mighty Fighter");
});
```

{% capture __alert_content -%}
**Be aware of maximum payload size** - There are times, when you may want to send the whole application state as extra data. Sentry does not recommend this, as application state can be very large and easily exceed the 200kB maximum that Sentry has on individual event payloads. When this happens, you'll get an `HTTP Error 413 Payload Too Large` message as the server response or (when you set `keepalive: true` as a `fetch` parameter), the request will stay `pending` forever (e.g. in Chrome).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
  level="warning"
%}

&nbsp;
### Unsetting Context
Context is held in the current scope and thus is cleared out at the end of each operation --- request, etc. You can also push and pop your own scopes to apply context data to a specific code block or function.

> **[Mimi note: code snippet or example here]**

Author: @kamilogorek is there an example of Unsetting Context? Is this something the user does? If not, we may want to change the name of this heading.

Most SDKs generally support configuring tags by configuring the scope:

```
Sentry.configureScope((scope) => {
  scope.setTag("page_locale", "de-at");
});
```

Several common uses for tags include:

-   The hostname of the server
-   The version of your platform (e.g. iOS 5.0)
-   The user’s language

Once you’ve started sending tagged data, you’ll see it show up in a few places:

-   The filters within the sidebar on the project stream page.
-   Summarized within an event on the sidebar.
-   The tags page on an aggregated event.

We’ll automatically index all tags for an event, as well as the frequency and the last time the Sentry SDK has seen a value. Even more so, we keep track of the number of distinct tags and can assist you in determining hotspots for various issues.

&nbsp;
### Setting the Level
You can set the severity of an event to one of five values: `fatal`, `error`, `warning`, `info`, and `debug`. `error` is the default, `fatal` is the most severe and `debug` is the least severe.

> **[Mimi note: Is there a way to set the level in a manually triggered error? This way, the level isn't set in scope -- which could be overly complicated/messy.]**

Author: @kamilogorek will you help with this question?

> **[Mimi note: vv this example doesn't actually set a level?? It's what I found under Context > Setting the Level]**

Author: @kamilogorek am I reading this right? Looks like a scopes thing and not actually setting the level.

> **[Mimi note: vv this example doesn't actually set a level?? It's what I found under Context > Setting the Level]**

Author: @kamilogorek will you help with this question?

```
RSVP.on('error', function(reason) {
  Sentry.captureException(reason);
});
```

[Bluebird](http://bluebirdjs.com/docs/getting-started.html) and other promise libraries report unhandled rejections to a global DOM event, `unhandledrejection`. In this case, you don't need to do anything; we've already got you covered with the default `captureUnhandledRejections: true` setting.

Please consult your promise library documentation on how to hook into its global unhandled rejection handler, if it exposes one.

&nbsp;
## Manually Trigger Errors
If your app is in a broken state, but error handling isn't throwing explicit errors, you can manually trigger errors.

**[Mimi note: Trying to cater to the kind of dev who has a set flow. Usually, 1. Initialize, 2. optionally configure, 3. Manually trigger an error (because you wanna take it out for a test drive)]**

&nbsp;
### Capturing Errors

The most common form of capturing is to capture errors. In general, if you have something that looks like an exception it can be captured.

For more information, see [Capturing Errors / Exceptions](#capturing-errors).

&nbsp;
### Using Custom Error Types

> If you want to define your own error types, you can generate a custom error with `new MyAppError('message')` and by creating a class that extends the built in `Error()`. You can also attach additional data to your error instance and Sentry will parse it along with your error.

Author: @kamilogorek, okay I gave it another try. :) How does this sound?

> If you want to define your own error types, you can generate a custom error with `new MyAppError('message')` and by creating a class that extends the built in `Error()`. You can also attach additional data to your error instance and Sentry will parse it along with your error, just like it does with regular errors.

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
If you want to define your own error types, you can do that by creating a class that [extends the built-in `Error` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error#Custom_Error_Types) and instantiating it's new instance, for example `new MyAppError('message', { fatal: true })`. You can also attach additional data to your error instance and Sentry will parse it along with your error, just like it does with regular errors.
```

Reviewer 2: Something along that lines is easier to grasp imo.

Reviewer: I like how that links to a standard.

**[Mimi note: Drop down here]**

You should `init` the Sentry Browser SDK as soon as possible during your page load:

```
Sentry.init({ dsn: 'https://<key>@sentry.io/<project>' });
```

Most SDKs will now automatically collect data if available; some require extra configuration as automatic error collecting is not possible due to platform limitations.

&nbsp;
## Capturing Errors
### Capturing Errors/ Exceptions
In JavaScript, you can pass an error object to `captureException()` to get it captured as an event.

```
try {
  aFunctionThatMightFail();
} catch (err) {
  Sentry.captureException(err);
}
```

{% capture __alert_content -%}
It's possible to throw strings as errors. In this case, the Sentry SDK will not record tracebacks.
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
  level="warning"
%}

&nbsp;
### Automatically Capturing Errors
Sentry attaches global handlers to capture uncaught exceptions and unhandled rejections.

> **[Mimi note: Code Snippet]**

Reviewer: We can go live with some missing code samples but this seems like a very important one.

Does it just work out of the box? If so the code can just be a "x=1/0" and a screenshot of how that looks?

Author: @billyvg will you help with this code snippet request?

Reviewer 4: @MimiDumpling Hmm, do we want a code snippet of just bad code here?

Reviewer 4: http://billy-sentry-sandbox--billyv.repl.co/
https://repl.it/@billyv/billy-Sentry-Sandbox?language=reactjs&folderId=196e878c-3a11-4dcd-b734-142c4b12cf4d
https://sentry.io/organizations/sentry-billy/issues/877249539/?query=is%3Aunresolved&statsPeriod=14d&utc=true

Reviewer 4: https://sentry.io/share/issue/7d4eb8bc79c140fa88e49d61927925df/

&nbsp;
### Automatically Capturing Errors with Promises
By default, Sentry for JavaScript captures unhandled promise rejections as described in the official ECMAScript 6 standard.

> **[Mimi note: Example Code]**

Reviewer: Is this as simple as:
```
promise.then(function(result) {
  // "Stuff worked!"
}, function(err) {
Sentry.captureException(err)
;});
```

Author: @billyvg will you help with this question? :)

Reviewer 4: Similar question, do we want an example of bad code here that will automatically get caught?

```
// The below promise will be rejected if the request returns an error, e.g. the below endpoint doesn't exist so the server returns a 404 error. Since the promise does not have a rejection handler, Sentry will automatically catch the rejection
window.fetch('/wrong-endpoint/').then(result => {
  // Stuff worked!
});
```

Reviewer 4: https://sentry.io/organizations/sentry-billy/issues/877270373/?query=is%3Aunresolved&statsPeriod=14d&utc=true
https://repl.it/@billyv/billy-Sentry-Sandbox?language=reactjs&folderId=196e878c-3a11-4dcd-b734-142c4b12cf4d

Please consult your promise library documentation on how to hook into its global unhandled rejection handler, if it exposes one.

&nbsp;
## Manually Trigger Errors

**[Mimi note: Best for when an app is in a broken state, but there are no explicit errors being thrown. So, you want to trigger an error, possibly with extra context passed in for debugging purposes.]**

**[Mimi note: Yes, there's duplicate info. Still thinking on this. Trying to cater to the kind of dev who has a set flow. Usually, 1. Initialize, 2. optionally configure, 3. Manually trigger an error (because you wanna take it out for a test drive)]**

&nbsp;
### Capturing Errors / Exceptions

The most common form of capturing is to capture errors.  What can be captured as an
error will depend on the platform.  In general if you have something that looks like
an exception it can be captured.  For some SDKs you can also omit the argument to
`capture_exception` and it will attempt to capture the current exception.

```
try {
  aFunctionThatMightFail();
} catch (err) {
  Sentry.captureException(err);
}
```
&nbsp;
### Generate a Custom Error

> **[Mimi note: I'd like to flesh this out more, but need help.]**

Reviewer: @kamilogorek Are generating custom errors something we expect people to do? Or should we put it down in advanced usage?

Reviewer 2: It's definitely an advanced use-case. Also `new Error('message')` is built-in, custom would be something like `new MyAppError('something')` and they'd have to create a class that extends built-in `Error` one.
We do handle it nicely though, so it's worth mentioning I guess.

Reviewer 2: See: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/packages/core/src/error.ts

Reviewer: Ok, sounds like this gets pushed to the advanced section, @MimiDumpling

```

&nbsp;
### Capturing Events

SDKs also provide ways to capture entire custom event objects. This is what integrations internally use to capture bespoke events that the SDK supplies with a lot of extra data.

&nbsp;
## Source Maps

{% include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content="We **highly recommend** you incorporate source maps with the Sentry JavaScript SDK in order to receive the full benefit of error tracking and monitoring. Source maps will provide stack traces, which will provide more information regarding errors."
  level="warning"
%}

Sentry supports un-minifying JavaScript via source maps. This lets you view source code context obtained from stack traces in their original untransformed form, which is particularly useful for debugging minified code (e.g. UglifyJS), or transpiled code from a higher-level language (e.g. TypeScript, ES6).

When you're using the Sentry JavaScript SDK, the SDK automatically fetches the source code and source maps by scraping the URLs within the stack trace. However, you may have legitimate reasons for [disabling the JavaScript source fetching in Sentry](https://blog.sentry.io/2018/07/17/source-code-fetching).

> **[Mimi note: How do you "turn on" Source Maps? This feels like an important question to answer right away. Added Generating Source Maps below.]**

Reviewer: @ndmanvar I know you have some passionate opinions here -- how do we drive people to set up source maps?

&nbsp;
### Generating Source Maps
Most modern JavaScript transpilers support source maps. Below are instructions for some common tools.

&nbsp;

> #### UglifyJS

Reviewer: Not a blocker now, but we may want to make sections like this collapsible.

Reviewer: Not supported out of the box in Readme.io but we could CSS it fwiw: https://feedback.readme.io/feature-requests/p/collapsible-md-sections-or-code-examples

    sourceMapContents: true
});
```

{% capture __alert_content -%}
All of the example configurations above inline your original, un-transformed source files into the generated source map file. Sentry requires both source map(s) **and** your original source files to perform reverse transformations. If you choose NOT to inline your source files, you must make those source files available to Sentry in _addition_ to your source maps (see below).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Inline Sources"
  content=__alert_content
%}

&nbsp;
#### TypeScript
The TypeScript compiler can output source maps. Configure the `sourceRoot` property to `/` to strip the build path prefix from generated source code references. This allows Sentry to match source files relative to your source root folder:

```json
{
    "compilerOptions": {
        "sourceMap": true,
        "inlineSources": true,
        "sourceRoot": "/"
    }
}
```

**[Mimi note: How do you enable Source Maps only for Sentry? -- Don't want users to see the data. Remain obfuscated. Added Hosting/Uploading]**

Source maps can be either:

1.  Served publicly over HTTP alongside your source files.

> 2.  Uploaded directly to Sentry (**recommended**).

Reviewer: Then let's switch the order so #1 is recommended :P

  level="warning"
%}

&nbsp;
## Integrating the SDK
All our JavaScript-related SDKs provide the same API. Still, there are some differences between them, such as installation, which this section of the docs explains.

**[Mimi note: Drop down here]**

**[Mimi note: Dropdown which affects install instructions are shown (if nothing is provided in the URL, defaults to browser)]**

- In the browser
- Angular
- Electron
    - Includes some minidump explanation, maybe redirects to the native page
- Ember
- Node.js
- React
    - Includes a note pointing to React Native
- Vue
- Cordova
- Ionic

The quickest way to get started is to use the CDN hosted version of the JavaScript browser SDK:

```
<script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/4.5.3/bundle.min.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>

```

&nbsp;

> ### Configuring the SDK with your Data Source Name

Reviewer 5: what if we just called this section like "Connecting the SDK to Sentry". DSN is a somewhat technical concept that I dont know many people are familiar with.

```

Most SDKs will now automatically collect data if available; some require extra configuration as automatic error collecting is not possible due to platform limitations.

&nbsp;
## Capturing Errors
### Capturing Errors/ Exceptions
In JavaScript, you can pass an error object to `captureException()` to get it captured as an event.

```
try {
  aFunctionThatMightFail();
} catch (err) {
  Sentry.captureException(err);
}
```

{% capture __alert_content -%}
It's possible to throw strings as errors. In this case, the Sentry SDK will not record tracebacks.
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
  level="warning"
%}

&nbsp;
### Automatically Capturing Errors
Sentry attaches global handlers to capture uncaught exceptions and unhandled rejections.

**[Mimi note: Code Snippet]**

&nbsp;
### Automatically Capturing Errors with Promises
By default, Sentry for JavaScript captures unhandled promise rejections as described in the official ECMAScript 6 standard.

**[Mimi note: Example Code]**

Configuration may be required if you are using a third-party library to implement promises:

> Most promise libraries have a global hook for capturing unhandled errors. You may want to disable default behavior by setting `captureUnhandledRejections` option to `false` and manually hook into such event handler and call `Raven.captureException` or `Raven.captureMessage` directly.

Reviewer: I think this came from my sloppy cutting & pasting. "Sentry" should replace "Raven" everywhere, right?

there are situations when this is useful.

```
Sentry.captureMessage('Something went wrong');
```

&nbsp;
### Capturing Events

SDKs also provide ways to capture entire custom event objects. This is what integrations internally use to capture bespoke events that the SDK supplies with a lot of extra data.

&nbsp;
## Context
You can also set context when manually triggering events.

### Setting Context {#context}
Sentry supports additional context with events. Often this context is shared among any issue captured in its lifecycle, and includes the following components:

**Structured Contexts**

: Specific structured contexts --- OS info, runtime information, etc.  This is typically set automatically.

[**User**](#capturing-the-user)

: Information about the current actor

[**Tags**](#tagging-events)

: Key/value pairs which generate breakdown charts and search filters

[**Level**](#setting-the-level)

: An event's severity 

[**Fingerprint**](#setting-the-fingerprint)

: A value used for grouping events into issues

[**Unstructured Extra Data**](#extra-context)

: Arbitrary unstructured data which the Sentry SDK stores with an event sample

&nbsp;

> ### Extra Context

Reviewer 3: Is this a purposeful duplication of **Setting Extra Context** from a few paragraphs above?

Author: @ckj Yeah, I'm worried a dev would skip the Manually Trigger Errors section and miss the "Setting Extra Context" section. I'll just have line 215 point to the "Setting Extra Context" above.

Author: Okay. Made the change. :)

```
using (SentrySdk.Init(o =>
  {
    o.BeforeSend = @event =>
      {
        if (@event.Exception is SqlConnection ex)
        {
          @event.SetFingerprint(new [] {"database-connection-error"});
        }
        return @event;
      };
  }
))
```

&nbsp;
#### Example: Merge a lot of groups into one group (groups are too small)
A generic error, such as a database connection error, has many different stack traces and never groups together.

The following example will just completely overwrite Sentry's grouping by omitting `{ { default } }` from the array:

[Example written in C#]

```
public class MyRpcException : Exception
{
  // The name of the RPC function that was called (e.g. "getAllBlogArticles")
  public string Function { get; set; }
  
  // For example a HTTP status code returned by the server.
  public HttpStatusCode Code { get; set; }
}

using (SentrySdk.Init(o =>
{
  o.BeforeSend = @event =>
  {
    if (@event.Exception is MyRpcException ex)
    {
      @event.SetFingerprint(
        new []
        {
          "{ { default } }"
          ex.Function,
          ex.Code.ToString(),
        }
      );
    }
    return @event;
  };
}
))
```

&nbsp;

> ## Releases

Reviewer 3: Can we call out Releases / Sourcemaps earlier in the doc and deep link here some how? They're super important and I worry about people not reading/scanning this far down.

While the recommended solution is to upload your source artifacts to Sentry, sometimes it’s necessary to allow communication from Sentry’s internal IPs. For more information on Sentry’s public IPs see: [IP Ranges]({%- link ip-ranges.md -%}#ip-ranges).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Working Behind a Firewall"
  content=__alert_content
%}{% capture __alert_content -%}
If you want to keep your source maps secret and choose not to upload your source maps directly to Sentry, you can enable the “Security Token” option in your project settings. This will cause outbound requests from Sentry’s servers to URLs originating from your “Allowed Domains” to have the HTTP header “X-Sentry-Token: {token}” appended, where {token} is a secure value you define. You can then configure your web server to allow access to your source maps when this header/token pair is present. You can alternatively override the default header name (X-Sentry-Token) and use HTTP Basic Authentication, e.g. by passing “Authorization: Basic {encoded_password}.”
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Secure Access to Source Maps"
  content=__alert_content
%}

&nbsp;

> ### Uploading Source Maps to Sentry

Reviewer: Hmm, is there anyway we can pull this earlier in the document?

Maybe the ideal layout is to enumerate the steps at the beginning and link down to them

&nbsp;
## Manually Trigger Errors

**[Mimi note: Best for when an app is in a broken state, but there are no explicit errors being thrown. So, you want to trigger an error, possibly with extra context passed in for debugging purposes.]**

> **[Mimi note: Yes, there's duplicate info. Still thinking on this. Trying to cater to the kind of dev who has a set flow. Usually, 1. Initialize, 2. optionally configure, 3. Manually trigger an error (because you wanna take it out for a test drive)]**

Reviewer: I think that's pretty common. Let's minimize the duplication but not stress it as long as the duplicated sections link to each other and it's clear that one is the advanced section.

Author: Cool. Linked it and reduced duplication.
